•  SLa Te X Wrapper
slatex
pdf-slatex
slatex/ no-latex
latex
pdf-latex
filename->latex-filename
Version: 5.1.2
[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 

SLaTeX Wrapper

 (require slatex/slatex-wrapper)

To use SLaTeX as a standalone program, either drag your ".tex" file onto SLaTeX
(on Windows or MacOS X), or type slatex file in a command shell.

NOTE: If you compile your ".tex" file without using slatex (i.e., by using
slatex -n and then using latex directly), then your TEXINPUTS environment
variable must contain a reference to the directory in which the most recent
version of "slatex.sty" lives. That file resides by default in the "slatex"
collection of the main installation.

In addition to the SLaTeX tools, this collection contains a parallel set of
PDF-SLaTeX tools, which are identical except that they call pdf-latex rather
than latex. In particular, there is now a launcher called (PDF-SLaTeX/
pdf-slatex).

(slatex filename) → boolean?
  filename : string?
(pdf-slatex filename) → boolean?
  filename : string?
Accepts a string naming a file and runs slatex and latex on the file. It calls
filename->latex-filename on filename.

pdf-slatex is like slatex except that it calls pdf-latex rather than latex, and
produces PDF output instead of PS output.

(slatex/no-latex filename) → void?
  filename : string?
Runs slatex on the file named by filename, without calling latex. That is, it
only processes the ".tex" file to produce the ".Z" files. It calls filename->
latex-filename on filename.

(latex filename) → boolean?
  filename : string?
(pdf-latex filename) → boolean?
  filename : string?
Runs latex on the file named by filename. It calls filename->latex-filename on
filename.

pdf-latex is like latex except that it calls pdf-latex rather than latex, and
produces PDF output instead of PS output.

(filename->latex-filename filename) → string?
  filename : string?
Accepts a filename and, if that file exists, it returns it. If the filename
appended with the suffix ".tex" exists, that filename is returned. Otherwise,
an exception is raised.

[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 
 
