▼  Extending Dr Racket
 1  Implementing Dr Racket Plugins
 2  Adding Languages to Dr Racket
 3  Creating New Kinds of Dr Racket Frames
 4  Extending the Existing Dr Racket Classes
 5  Expanding the User’s Program Text and Breaking
 6  Editor Modes
 7  Language-specific capabilities
 8  Check Syntax
 9  drracket: get/ extend
10  drracket: unit
11  drracket: language
12  drracket: language-configuration
13  drracket: debug
14  drracket: rep
15  drracket: frame
16  drracket: help-desk
17  drracket: eval
18  drracket: modes
19  drracket: module-language-tools
20  drracket: module-language
21  Documentation Utilities
22  Backwards compatibility
    Index
► 7  Language-specific capabilities
7.1  Customizing Dr Racket’s behavior
7.2  Customizing Dr Racket’s GUI
On this page:
7.1 Customizing Dr Racket’s behavior
7.2 Customizing Dr Racket’s GUI
[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 

7 Language-specific capabilities

7.1 Customizing DrRacket’s behavior

When using the language declared in the source, DrRacket queries that language
via module-compiled-language-info to determine if an expression in the
interactions window is ready to be submitted to the evaluator (when the user
types return). The info procedure is passed 'drracket:submit-predicate and
should return a function with this contract:

    (-> input-port?
        boolean?
        boolean?)

This function’s first argument is a port that contains the interactions
window’s data, starting from the prompt position to the end of the editor. The
second argument is a boolean indicating if the insertion point is followed only
by whitespace. The results should be a boolean indicating if the expression
should be evaluated. This function is called in sandbox, but with no filesystem
or networking limits.

7.2 Customizing DrRacket’s GUI

DrRacket’s capability interface provides a mechanism for tools to allow
languages to hide their GUI interface, if the tool does not apply to the
language. Tools register capabilities keyed with symbols via.
drracket:language:register-capability. Once registered, a tool can query a
language, via the capability-value method. The result from this method controls
whether or not the tool shows this part of the GUI for DrRacket.

See drracket:language:register-capability for a list of the capabilities
registered by default.

[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 
 
