▼  File: Racket File Format Libraries
1  Convertible: Data-Conversion Protocol
2  gzip Compression and File Creation
3  gzip Decompression
4  zip File Creation
5  tar File Creation
6  MD5 Message Digest
7  SHA1 Message Digest
8  GIF File Writing
9  Windows Registry
   Bibliography
   Index
On this page:
gunzip
gunzip-through-ports
inflate
[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 

3 gzip Decompression

 (require file/gunzip)
The file/gunzip library provides utilities to decompress archive files in gzip
format, or simply to deccompress data using the pkzip “inflate” method.

(gunzip file [output-name-filter]) → void?
  file : path-string?
   output-name-filter   :   (string? boolean? . -> . path-string?)
                        =   (lambda (file archive-supplied?) file)
Extracts data that was compressed using the gzip utility (or gzip function),
writing the uncompressed data directly to a file. The file argument is the name
of the file containing compressed data. The default output file name is the
original name of the compressed file as stored in file. If a file by this name
exists, it will be overwritten. If no original name is stored in the source
file, "unzipped" is used as the default output file name.

The output-name-filter procedure is applied to two arguments—the default
destination file name and a boolean that is #t if this name was read from file—
before the destination file is created. The return value of the file is used as
the actual destination file name (to be opened with the 'truncate flag of
open-output-file).

If the compressed data turns out to be corrupted, the exn:fail exception is
raised.

(gunzip-through-ports in out) → void?
  in : input-port?
  out : output-port?
Reads the port in for compressed data that was created using the gzip utility,
writing the uncompressed data to the port out.

If the compressed data turns out to be corrupted, the exn:fail exception is
raised. The unzipping process may peek further into in than needed to
decompress the data, but it will not consume the unneeded bytes.

(inflate in out) → void?
  in : input-port?
  out : output-port?
Reads pkzip-format “deflated” data from the port in and writes the uncompressed
(“inflated”) data to the port out. The data in a file created by gzip uses this
format (preceded with some header information).

If the compressed data turns out to be corrupted, the exn:fail exception is
raised. The inflate process may peek further into in than needed to decompress
the data, but it will not consume the unneeded bytes.

[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 
 
