▼  File: Racket File Format Libraries
1  Convertible: Data-Conversion Protocol
2  gzip Compression and File Creation
3  gzip Decompression
4  zip File Creation
5  tar File Creation
6  MD5 Message Digest
7  SHA1 Message Digest
8  GIF File Writing
9  Windows Registry
   Bibliography
   Index
On this page:
gzip
gzip-through-ports
deflate
[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 

2 gzip Compression and File Creation

 (require file/gzip)
The file/gzip library provides utilities to create archive files in gzip
format, or simply to compress data using the pkzip “deflate” method.

(gzip in-file [out-file]) → void?
  in-file : path-string?
  out-file : path-string? = (string-append in-file ".gz")
Compresses data to the same format as the gzip utility, writing the compressed
data directly to a file. The in-file argument is the name of the file to
compress. If the file named by out-file exists, it will be overwritten.

(gzip-through-ports   in                   
                      out                  
                      orig-filename        
                      timestamp)      →   void?
  in : input-port?
  out : output-port?
  orig-filename : (or/c string? false/c)
  timestamp : exact-integer?
Reads the port in for data and compresses it to out, outputting the same format
as the gzip utility. The orig-filename string is embedded in this output;
orig-filename can be #f to omit the filename from the compressed stream. The
timestamp number is also embedded in the output stream, as the modification
date of the original file (in Unix seconds, as file-or-directory-modify-seconds
would report on Unix).

                       exact-nonnegative-integer?
(deflate in out)   →   exact-nonnegative-integer?
                       exact-nonnegative-integer?
  in : input-port?
  out : output-port?
Writes pkzip-format “deflated” data to the port out, compressing data from the
port in. The data in a file created by gzip uses this format (preceded with
header information).

The result is three values: the number of bytes read from in, the number of
bytes written to out, and a cyclic redundancy check (CRC) value for the input.

[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 
 
