▼  File: Racket File Format Libraries
1  Convertible: Data-Conversion Protocol
2  gzip Compression and File Creation
3  gzip Decompression
4  zip File Creation
5  tar File Creation
6  MD5 Message Digest
7  SHA1 Message Digest
8  GIF File Writing
9  Windows Registry
   Bibliography
   Index
On this page:
zip
zip->output
zip-verbose
[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 

4 zip File Creation

 (require file/zip)
The file/zip library provides utilities to create zip archive files, which are
compatible with both Windows and Unix (including Mac OS X) unpacking. The
actual compression is implemented by deflate.

(zip zip-file path ...) → void?
  zip-file : path-string?
  path : path-string?
Creates zip-file, which holds the complete content of all paths. The given
paths are all expected to be relative path names of existing directories and
files (i.e., relative to the current directory). If a nested path is provided
as a path, its ancestor directories are also added to the resulting zip file,
up to the current directory (using pathlist-closure). Files are packaged as
usual for zip files, including permission bits for both Windows and Unix
(including Mac OS X). The permission bits are determined by
file-or-directory-permissions, which does not preserve the distinction between
owner/group/other permissions. Also, symbolic links are always followed.

(zip->output paths [out]) → void?
  paths : (listof path-string?)
  out : output-port? = (current-output-port)
Zips each of the given paths, and packages it as a zip “file” that is written
directly to out. Unlike zip, the specified paths are included as-is; if a
directory is specified, its content is not automatically added, and nested
directories are added without parent directories.

(zip-verbose) → boolean?
(zip-verbose on?) → void?
  on? : any/c
A parameter that controls output during a zip operation. Setting this parameter
to a true value causes zip to display to (current-error-port) the filename that
is currently being compressed.

[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 
 
