▼  Unstable: May Change Without Warning
 1  Guidelines for developing unstable libraries
 2  Automata: Compiling State Machines
 3  Bytes
 4  Contracts
 5  Contracts for macro subexpressions
 6  Contracts for struct type properties
 7  Debugging
 8  Definitions
 9  Dictionaries
10  Exceptions
11  Filesystem
12  Find
13  Finding Mutated Variables
14  Functions
15  Generics
16  Hash Tables
17  Interface-Oriented Programming for Classes
18  Lists
19  Logging
20  Mark Parameters
21  Match
22  Net
23  Path
24  Ports
25  Pretty-Printing
26  Requiring Modules
27  Sequences
28  Strings
29  Structs
30  Syntax
31  Temporal Contracts: Explicit Contract Monitors
32  GUI libraries
[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 

1 Guidelines for developing unstable libraries

Any collection developer may add modules to the unstable collection.

Every module needs an owner to be responsible for it.

  • If you add a module, you are its owner. Add a comment with your name at the
    top of the module.

  • If you add code to someone else’s module, tag your additions with your
    name. The module’s owner may ask you to move your code to a separate module
    if they don’t wish to accept responsibility for it.

When changing a library, check all uses of the library in the collections tree
and update them if necessary. Notify users of major changes.

Place new modules according to the following rules. (These rules are necessary
for maintaining PLT’s separate text, gui, and drracket distributions.)

  • Non-GUI modules go under unstable (or subcollections thereof). Put the
    documentation in unstable/scribblings and include with include-section from
    unstable/scribblings/unstable.scrbl.

  • GUI modules go under unstable/gui. Put the documentation in unstable/
    scribblings/gui and include them with include-section from unstable/
    scribblings/gui.scrbl.

  • Do not add modules depending on DrRacket to the unstable collection.

  • Put tests in tests/unstable.

Keep documentation and tests up to date.

[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 
 
