►  Scribble: The Racket Documentation Tool
1  Getting Started
2  @ Syntax
3  High-Level Scribble API
4  Scribbling Documentation
5  Literate Programming
6  Text Generation
7  Low-Level Scribble API
8  Running scribble
   Index
▼ 3  High-Level Scribble API
3.1  Base Document Format
3.2  Racket Manual Format
3.3  SIGPLAN Paper Format
3.4  JFP Paper Format
3.5  LNCS Paper Format
On this page:
abstract
include-abstract
author
author/ short
affiliation
affiliation-mark
affiliation-sep
Version: 5.1.2
[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 

3.4 JFP Paper Format

 #lang scribble/jfp
The scribble/jfp language is like scribble/manual, but configured with Latex
style defaults to use the "jfp.cls" class file that is included with Scribble.

Latex output with scribble/jfp uses a main-document version supplied to title
as the short-form document name (to be used in page headers).

(abstract pre-content ...) → block?
  pre-content : pre-content?
Generates a nested flow for a paper abstract.

(include-abstract module-path)
Similar to include-section, but incorporates the document in the specified
module as an abstract. The document must have no title or sub-parts.

(author name ...) → block?
  name : pre-content?
A replacement for author from scribble/base.

((author/short short-name ...) long-name ...) → block?
  short-name : pre-content?
  long-name : pre-content?
Like author, but allows the short-form names (to be used in page headers) to be
specified separately from the long-form name.

(affiliation place ...) → element?
  place : pre-content?
(affiliation-mark mark ...) → element?
  mark : pre-content?
(affiliation-sep) → element?
Use affiliation within author or the long-name part of author/short to specify
affiliations after all authors. If different authors have different
affiliations, use affiliation-mark with a number after each author, and then
use affiliation-mark before each different affiliation within a single
affiliation, using (affiliation-sep) to separate affiliations.

[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 
 
