▼  The Racket Graphical Interface Toolkit
 1  Windowing
 2  Windowing Classes
 3  Windowing Functions
 4  Editors
 5  Snip and Style Classes
 6  Editor Classes
 7  Editor Functions
 8  WXME Decoding
 9  Preferences
10  Dynamic Loading
11  Startup Actions
12  Platform Dependencies
    Index
[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 

9 Preferences

The racket/gui/base library supports a number of preferences for global
configuration. The preferences are stored in the common file reported by
find-system-path for 'pref-file, and preference values can be retrieved and
changed through get-preference and put-preferences. Except for the except the
'GRacket:playcmd preference preference, the racket/gui/base library reads each
of the preferences below once at startup.

Beware: The preferences file is read in case-insensitive mode (for historical
reasons), so the symbols listed below must be surrounded with |.

The following are the preference names used by GRacket:

  • 'GRacket:default-font-size preference — sets the default font size the
    basic style in a style list, and thus the default font size for an editor.

  • 'GRacket:defaultMenuPrefix preference — sets the prefix used by default for
    menu item shortcuts on Unix, one of 'ctl, 'meta, or 'alt. The default is
    'ctl. When this preference is set to 'meta or 'alt, underlined mnemonics
    (introduced by & in menu labels) are suppressed.

  • 'GRacket:emacs-undo preference — a true value makes undo in editors work as
    in Emacs (i.e., undo operations are themselves kept in the undo stack).

  • 'GRacket:wheelStep preference — sets the default mouse-wheel step size of
    editor-canvas% objects.

  • 'GRacket:outline-inactive-selection preference — a true value causes
    selections in text editors to be shown with an outline of the selected
    region when the editor does no have the keyboard focus.

  • 'GRacket:playcmd preference — used to format a sound-playing command; see
    play-sound for details.

  • 'GRacket:doubleClickTime preference — overrides the platform-specific
    default interval (in milliseconds) for double-click events.

In each of the above cases, if no preference value is found using the
GRacket-prefixed name, a MrEd-prefixed name is tried for backward
compatibility.

[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 
 
