►  The Racket Reference
 1  Language Model
 2  Syntactic Forms
 3  Datatypes
 4  Structures
 5  Classes and Objects
 6  Units
 7  Contracts
 8  Pattern Matching
 9  Control Flow
10  Concurrency and Parallelism
11  Macros
12  Input and Output
13  Reflection and Security
14  Operating System
15  Memory Management
16  Unsafe Operations
17  Running Racket
    Bibliography
    Index
▼ 15  Memory Management
15.1  Weak Boxes
15.2  Ephemerons
15.3  Wills and Executors
15.4  Garbage Collection
On this page:
collect-garbage
current-memory-use
dump-memory-stats
[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 

15.4 Garbage Collection

Set the PLTDISABLEGC environment variable (to any value) before Racket starts
to disable garbage collection.

(collect-garbage) → void?
Forces an immediate garbage collection (unless garbage collection is disabled
by setting PLTDISABLEGC). Some effectively unreachable data may remain
uncollected, because the collector cannot prove that it is unreachable.

The collect-garbage procedure provides some control over the timing of
collections, but garbage will obviously be collected even if this procedure is
never called (unless garbage collection is disabled).

(current-memory-use [cust]) → exact-nonnegative-integer?
  cust : custodian? = #f
Returns an estimate of the number of bytes of memory occupied by reachable data
from cust. This estimate is calculated by the last garbage colection, and can
be 0 if none occurred (or if none occurred since the given custodian was
created). The current-memory-use function does not perform a collection by
itself; doing one before the call will generally decrease the result (or
increase it from 0 if no collections happened yet).

If cust is not provided, the estimate is a total reachable from any custodians.

When Racket is compiled without support for memory accounting, the estimate is
the same (i.e., all memory) for any individual custodian; see also
custodian-memory-accounting-available?.

(dump-memory-stats) → any
Dumps information about memory usage to the (low-level) standard output port.

[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 
 
