►  The Racket Reference
 1  Language Model
 2  Syntactic Forms
 3  Datatypes
 4  Structures
 5  Classes and Objects
 6  Units
 7  Contracts
 8  Pattern Matching
 9  Control Flow
10  Concurrency and Parallelism
11  Macros
12  Input and Output
13  Reflection and Security
14  Operating System
15  Memory Management
16  Unsafe Operations
17  Running Racket
    Bibliography
    Index
▼ 17  Running Racket
17.1  Running Racket or GRacket
17.2  Libraries and Collections
17.3  Interactive Help
17.4  Interactive Module Loading
17.5  Debugging
On this page:
help
[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 

17.3 Interactive Help

 (require racket/help)
The bindings documented in this section are provided by the racket/help and
racket/init libraries, which means that they are available when the Racket
executable is started with no command-line arguments. They are not provided by
racket/base or racket.

help
(help string ...)
(help id)
(help id #:from module-path)
(help #:search datum ...)
For general help, see the main documentation page.

The help form searches the documentation and opens a web browser (using the
user’s selected browser) to display the results.

            See net/sendurl for information on how the user’s browser is
            launched to display help information.

A simple help or (help) form opens the main documentation page.

The (help string ...) form—using literal strings, as opposed to expressions
that produce strings—performs a string-matching search. For example,

    (help "web browser" "firefox")

searches the documentation index for references that include the phrase “web
browser” or “firefox.”

A (help id) form looks for documentation specific to the current binding of id.
For example,

    (require net/url)
    (help url->string)

opens a web browser to show the documentation for url->string from the net/url
library.

For the purposes of help, a for-label require introduces a binding without
actually executing the net/url library—for cases when you want to check
documentation, but cannot or do not want to run the providing module.

    (require racket/gui) ; does not work in racket
    (require (for-label racket/gui)) ; ok in racket
    (help frame%)

If id has no for-label and normal binding, then help lists all libraries that
are known to export a binding for id.

The (help id #:from module-path) variant is similar to (help id), but using
only the exports of module-path. (The module-path module is required for-label
in a temporary namespace.)

    (help frame% #:from racket/gui) ; equivalent to the above

The (help #:search datum ...) form is similar to (help string ...), where any
non-string form of datum is converted to a string using display. No datum is
evaluated as an expression.

For example,

    (help #:search "web browser" firefox)

also searches the documentation index for references that include the phrase
“web browser” or “firefox.”

[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 
 
