▼  The Racket Guide
 1  Welcome to Racket
 2  Racket Essentials
 3  Built-In Datatypes
 4  Expressions and Definitions
 5  Programmer-Defined Datatypes
 6  Modules
 7  Contracts
 8  Input and Output
 9  Regular Expressions
10  Exceptions and Control
11  Iterations and Comprehensions
12  Pattern Matching
13  Classes and Objects
14  Units (Components)
15  Reflection and Dynamic Evaluation
16  Macros
17  Creating Languages
18  Performance
19  Running and Creating Executables
20  Compilation and Configuration
21  More Libraries
22  Dialects of Racket and Scheme
    Bibliography
    Index
► 21  More Libraries
21.1  Graphics and GUIs
21.2  The Web Server
21.3  Using Foreign Libraries
21.4  And More
On this page:
21.1 Graphics and GUIs
21.2 The Web Server
21.3 Using Foreign Libraries
21.4 And More
[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 

21 More Libraries

This guide covers only the Racket language and libraries that are documented in
The Racket Reference. The Racket distribution includes many additional
libraries.

21.1 Graphics and GUIs

Racket provides many libraries for graphics and graphical user interfaces
(GUIs):

  • The racket/draw library provides basic drawing tools, including drawing
    contexts such as bitmaps and PostScript files.

    See The Racket Drawing Toolkit for more information.

  • The racket/gui library provides GUI widgets such as windows, buttons,
    checkboxes, and text fields. The library also includes a sophisticated and
    extensible text editor.

    See The Racket Graphical Interface Toolkit for more information.

  • The slideshow/pict library provides a more functional abstraction layer
    over racket/draw. This layer is especially useful for creating slide
    presentations with Slideshow, but it is also useful for creating images for
    Scribble documents or other drawing tasks. Pictures created with the
    slideshow/pict library can be rendered to any drawing context.

    See Slideshow: Figure and Presentation Tools for more information.

  • The 2htdp/image library is similar to slideshow/pict. It is more
    streamlined for pedagogical use, but also slightly more specific to screen
    and bitmap drawing.

    See 2htdp/image for more information.

  • The sgl library provides OpenGL for 3-D graphics. The context for rendering
    OpenGL can be a window or bitmap created with racket/gui.

    See GL: 3-D Graphics for more information.

21.2 The Web Server

Web Applications in Racket describes the Racket web server, which supports
servlets implemented in Racket.

21.3 Using Foreign Libraries

The Racket Foreign Interface describes tools for using Racket to access
libraries that are normally used by C programs.

21.4 And More

Racket Documentation lists documentation for many other installed libraries.
Run raco docs to find documentation for libraries that are installed on your
system and specific to your user account.

PLaneT offers even more downloadable packages contributed by Racketeers.

[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 
 
