▼  Syntax: Meta-Programming Helpers
1  Syntax Object Helpers
2  Module-Processing Helpers
3  Macro Transformer Helpers
4  Reader Helpers
5  Non-Module Compilation And Expansion
6  Trusting Standard Recertifying Transformers
7  Attaching Documentation to Exports
8  Parsing and specifying syntax
9  Source Locations
   Index
On this page:
provide-and-document
lookup-documentation
[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 

7 Attaching Documentation to Exports

 (require syntax/docprovide)

(provide-and-document doc-label-id doc-row ...)
 
doc-row   =   (section-string (name type-datum doc-string ...) ...)
          |   (all-from prefix-id module-path doc-label-id)
          |   (all-from-except prefix-id module-path doc-label-id id ...)
               
   name   =   id
          |   (local-name-id external-name-id)
A form that exports names and records documentation information.

The doc-label-id identifier is used as a key for accessing the documentation
through lookup-documentation. The actual documentation is organized into
“rows”, each with a section title.

A row has one of the following forms:

  • (section-string (name type-datum doc-string ...) ...)

    Creates a documentation section whose title is section-string, and provides
    /documents each name. The type-datum is arbitrary, for use by clients that
    call lookup-documentation. The doc-strings are also arbitrary documentation
    information, usually concatenated by clients.

    A name is either an identifier or a renaming sequence (local-name-id
    extenal-name-id).

    Multiple rows with the same section name will be merged in the
    documentation output. The final order of sections matches the order of the
    first mention of each section.

  • (all-from prefix-id module-path doc-label-id)

  • (all-from-except prefix-id module-path doc-label-id id ...)

    Merges documentation and provisions from the specified module into the
    current one; the prefix-id is used to prefix the imports into the current
    module (so they can be re-exported). If ids are provided, the specified ids
    are not re-exported and their documentation is not merged.

(lookup-documentation   module-path-v        
                        label-sym)      →   any
  module-path-v : module-path?
  label-sym : symbol?
Returns documentation for the specified module and label. The module-path-v
argument is a quoted module path, like the argument to dynamic-require. The
label-sym identifies a set of documentation using the symbol as a label
identifier in provide-and-document.

[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 
 
