►  Dr Racket: The Racket Programming Environment
1  Interface Essentials
2  Languages
3  Interface Reference
4  Extending Dr Racket
   Index
▼ 3  Interface Reference
3.1  Menus
3.2  Preferences
3.3  Keyboard Shortcuts
3.4  Dr Racket Files
► 3.4  Dr Racket Files
3.4.1  Program Files
3.4.2  Backup and Autosave Files
3.4.3  Preference Files
On this page:
3.4.1 Program Files
3.4.2 Backup and Autosave Files
3.4.3 Preference Files
[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 

3.4 DrRacket Files

3.4.1 Program Files

The standard file extension for a Racket program file is ".rkt". The extensions
".ss", ".scm", and ".sch" are also historically popular.

DrRacket’s editor can save a program file in two different formats:

  • Plain-text file format — All text editors can read this format. DrRacket
    saves a program in plain-text format by default, unless the program
    contains images or text boxes. (Plain-text format does not preserve images
    or text boxes.)

    Plain-text format is platform-specific because different platforms have
    different newline conventions. However, most tools for moving files across
    platforms support a “text” transfer mode that adjusts newlines correctly.

  • Multimedia file format — This format is specific to DrRacket, and no other
    editor recognizes it. DrRacket saves a program in multimedia format by
    default when the program contains images, text boxes, or formatted text.

    Multimedia format is platform-independent, and it uses an ASCII encoding
    (so that different ways of transferring the file are unlikely to corrupt
    the file).

3.4.2 Backup and Autosave Files

When you modify an existing file in DrRacket and save it, DrRacket copies the
old version of the file to a special backup file if no backup file exists. The
backup file is saved in the same directory as the original file, and the backup
file’s name is generated from the original file’s name:

  • On Unix and Mac OS X, a "~" is added to the end of the file’s name.

  • On Windows, the file’s extension is replaced with ".bak".

Every five minutes, DrRacket checks each open file. If any file is modified and
not saved, DrRacket saves the file to a special autosave file (just in case
there is a power failure or some other catastrophic error). If the file is
later saved, or if the user exists DrRacket without saving the file, the
autosave file is removed. The autosave file is saved in the same directory as
the original file, and the autosave file’s name is generated from the original
file’s name:

  • On Unix and Mac OS X, a "#" is added to the start and end of the file’s
    name, then a number is added after the ending "#", and then one more "#" is
    appended after the number. The number is selected to make the autosave
    filename unique.

  • On Windows, the file’s extension is replaced with a number to make the
    autosave filename unique.

If the definitions window is modified and there is no current file, then an
autosave file is written to the user’s “documents” directory.


            The “documents” directory is determined by (find-system-path
            'doc-dir).

3.4.3 Preference Files

On start-up, DrRacket reads configuration information from a preferences file.
The name and location of the preferences file depends on the platform and user:

            The expression (find-system-path 'pref-file) returns the platform-
            and user-specific preference file path.

  • On Unix, preferences are stored in a ".racket" subdirectory in the user’s
    home directory, in a file "racket-prefs.rktd".

  • On Windows, preferences are stored in a file "racket-prefs.rktd" in a
    sub-directory "Racket" in the user’s application-data folder as specified
    by the Windows registry; the application-data folder is usually 
    "Application Data" in the user’s profile directory, and that directory is
    usually hidden in the Windows GUI.

  • On Mac OS X, preferences are stored in "org.racket-lang.prefs.rktd" in the
    user’s preferences folder.

A lock file is used while modifying the preferences file, and it is created in
the same directory as the preferences file. On Windows, the lock file is named 
"_LOCKracket-prefs.rktd"; on Unix, it is ".LOCK.racket-prefs.rktd"; on Mac OS
X, it is ".LOCK.org.racket-lang.prefs.rktd".

If the user-specific preferences file does not exist, and the file 
"racket-prefs.rktd" in the "defaults" collection does exist, then it is used
for the initial preference settings. (See Libraries and Collections for more
information about collections.) This file thus allows site-specific
configuration for preference defaults. To set up such a configuration, start
DrRacket and configure the preferences to your liking. Then, exit DrRacket and
copy your preferences file into the "defaults" collection as
"racket-prefs.rktd". Afterward, users who have no preference settings already
will get the preference settings that you chose.

[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 
 
