►  Dr Racket: The Racket Programming Environment
1  Interface Essentials
2  Languages
3  Interface Reference
4  Extending Dr Racket
   Index
▼ 1  Interface Essentials
 1.1  Buttons
 1.2  Choosing a Language
 1.3  Editing with Parentheses
 1.4  Searching
 1.5  Tabbed Editing
 1.6  The Interactions Window
 1.7  Graphical Syntax
 1.8  Graphical Debugging Interface
 1.9  The Module Browser
1.10  Creating Executables
[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 

1 Interface Essentials

The DrRacket window has three parts: a row of buttons at the top, two editing
panels in the middle, and a status line at the bottom.

    [example]

The top editing panel, called the definitions window, is for defining programs.
The above figure shows a program that defines the function square.

The bottom panel, called the interactions window, is for evaluating Racket
expressions interactively. The Language line in the interactions window
indicates which primitives are available in the definitions and interactions
windows. In the above figure, the language is determined from the program
source’s #lang line.

            The interactions window is described further in The Interactions
            Window, later in this manual.

Clicking the Run button evaluates the program in the definitions window, making
the program’s definitions available in the interactions window. Given the
definition of square as in the figure above, typing (square 2) in the
interactions window produces the result 4.

The status line at the bottom of DrRacket’s window provides information about
the current line and position of the editing caret, whether the current file
can be modified, and whether DrRacket is currently evaluating any expression.
The recycling icon flashes while DrRacket is “recycling” internal resources,
such as memory.

    1.1 Buttons

    1.2 Choosing a Language

    1.3 Editing with Parentheses

    1.4 Searching

    1.5 Tabbed Editing

    1.6 The Interactions Window

      1.6.1 Errors

      1.6.2 Input and Output

    1.7 Graphical Syntax

      1.7.1 Images

      1.7.2 XML Boxes and Racket Boxes

    1.8 Graphical Debugging Interface

      1.8.1 Debugger Buttons

      1.8.2 Definitions Window Actions

      1.8.3 Stack View Pane

      1.8.4 Debugging Multiple Files

    1.9 The Module Browser

    1.10 Creating Executables

[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 
 
