►  Dr Racket: The Racket Programming Environment
1  Interface Essentials
2  Languages
3  Interface Reference
4  Extending Dr Racket
   Index
▼ 3  Interface Reference
3.1  Menus
3.2  Preferences
3.3  Keyboard Shortcuts
3.4  Dr Racket Files
► 3.2  Preferences
3.2.1  Font
3.2.2  Colors
3.2.3  Editing
3.2.4  Warnings
3.2.5  General
3.2.6  Profiling
3.2.7  Browser
3.2.8  Tools
On this page:
3.2.1 Font
3.2.2 Colors
3.2.3 Editing
3.2.4 Warnings
3.2.5 General
3.2.6 Profiling
3.2.7 Browser
3.2.8 Tools
[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 

3.2 Preferences

The preferences dialog consists of several panels.

3.2.1 Font

This panel controls the main font used by DrRacket.

3.2.2 Colors

The Colors panel has several sub-panels that let you configure the colors that
DrRacket uses for the editor background, for highlighting matching parentheses,
for the online coloring for Racket and Java modes, for Check Syntax, and for
the colors of the text in the interactions window.

It also has two buttons, White on Black and Black on White, which set a number
of defaults for the color preferences and change a few other aspects of
DrRacket’s behavior to make DrRacket’s colors look nicer for those two modes.

3.2.3 Editing

The Editing panel consists of several sub-panels:

  • Indenting

    This panel controls which keywords DrRacket recognizes for indenting, and
    how each keyword is treated.

  • Square bracket

    This panel controls which keywords DrRacket uses to determine when to
    rewrite [ to (. For cond-like keywords, the number in parenthesis indicates
    how many sub-expressions are skipped before square brackets are started.

    See Editing with Parentheses for details on how the entries in the columns
    behave.

  • General

      □ Map delete to backspace — If checked, the editor treats the Delete key
        like the Backspace key.

      □ Wrap words in editor buffers — If checked, DrRacket editors auto-wrap
        text lines by default. Changing this preference affects new windows
        only.

      □ Reuse existing frames when opening new files — If checked, new files
        are opened in the same DrRacket window, rather than creating a new
        DrRacket window for each new file.

      □ Enable keybindings in menus — If checked, some DrRacket menu items have
        keybindings. Otherwise, no menu items have key bindings. This
        preference is designed for people who are comfortable editing in Emacs
        and find the standard menu keybindings interfere with the Emacs
        keybindings.

      □ Treat command key as meta — If checked, DrRacket will use the command
        key for some Emacs-like keybindings, instead of using it for menu
        shortcuts. This option is only available on Mac OS X.

      □ Color syntax interactively — If checked, DrRacket colors your syntax as
        you type.

      □ Search using anchors — If checked, DrRacket’s searching mode will jump
        directly to the first search hit, using an “anchor” to determine where
        to search if the search string changes.

      □ Normalize pasted strings — If checked, DrRacket adjusts strings that
        are pasted into the editor to avoid confusion. For example,
        non-breaking spaces look just like spaces but are not considered
        separators like ordinary spaces are. If this is checked DrRacket will
        automatically turn those non-breaking spaces into regular spaces.
        Similarly with other (less common) characters.

      □ Enable overwrite mode keybindings — If checked, DrRacket enables the
        insert keybinding to swap into overwrite mode

      □ Show line numbers — If checked, DrRacket shows line numbers for the
        file being edited in the left-hand column

  • Racket

      □ Highlight between matching parens — If checked, the editor marks the
        region between matching parenthesis with a gray background (in color)
        or a stipple pattern (in monochrome) when the blinking caret is next to
        a parenthesis.

      □ Automatically adjust closing parens — If checked, the editor
        automatically converts a typed ) to ] to match [, or it converts a
        typed ] to ) to match (.

      □ Automatically adjust opening square brackets If checked, the editor
        changes typed [ to match the context (as explained in Editing with
        Parentheses).

      □ Flash paren match — If checked, typing a closing parenthesis, square
        bracket, or quotation mark flashes the matching open parenthesis/
        bracket/quote.

3.2.4 Warnings

  • Ask before changing save format — If checked, DrRacket consults the user
    before saving a file in non-text format (see Program Files).

  • Verify exit — If checked, DrRacket consults the user before exiting.

  • Ask about normalizing strings — If checked, DrRacket consults the user
    before normalizing a string pasted into the editor.

  • Only warn once when executions and interactions are not synchronized — If
    checked, DrRacket warns the user on the first interaction after the
    definitions window, language, or teachpack is changed without a
    corresponding click on Run. Otherwise, the warning appears on every
    interaction.

  • Ask about clearing test coverage — If checked, when test coverage
    annotations are displayed DrRacket prompts about removing them. This
    setting only applies to the PLT languages. DrRacket never asks in the
    teaching languages.

  • Check for newer Racket versions — If checked, DrRacket periodically polls a
    server to determine whether a newer version of DrRacket is available.

3.2.5 General

  • Number of recent items — controls the length of the Open Recent menu (in
    the File menu).

  • Auto-save files — If checked, the editor generates autosave files (see
    Backup and Autosave Files) for files that have not been saved after five
    minutes.

  • Backup files — If checked, when saving a file for the first time in each
    editing session, the original copy of the file is copied to a backup file
    in the same directory. The backup files have the same name as the original,
    except that they end in either ".bak" or "~".

  • Show status-line — If checked, DrRacket shows a status line at the bottom
    of each window.

  • Count column numbers from one — If checked, the status line’s column
    counter counts from one. Otherwise, it counts from zero.

  • Display line numbers in buffer; not character offsets — If checked, the
    status line shows a ‹line›:‹column› display for the current selection
    rather than the character offset into the text.

  • Automatically print to PostScript file — If checked, printing will
    automatically save PostScript files. If not, printing will use the standard
    printing mechanisms for your computer.

  • Open files in separate tabs (not separate windows) — If checked, DrRacket
    will use tabs in the front-most window to open new files, rather than
    creating new windows for new files.

  • Automatically open interactions window when running a program — If checked,
    DrRacket shows the interactions window (if it is hidden) when a program is
    run.

  • Automatically switch to the module language when opening a module — If
    checked, DrRacket will recognize files that have a #lang line and adjust
    the language setting automatically.

  • Put the interactions window beside the definitions window — If checked,
    DrRacket puts the interactions window to the right of the definitions
    window. By default, the interactions window is below the definitions
    window.

  • Always show the #lang line in the Module language — If checked, the module
    language always shows the #lang line (even when it would ordinarily be
    scrolled off of the page), assuming that the #lang line is the first line
    in the file.

3.2.6 Profiling

This preference panel configures the profiling report. The band of color shows
the range of colors that profiled functions take on. Colors near the right are
used for code that is not invoked often and colors on the right are used for
code that is invoked often.

If you are interested in more detail at the low end, choose the Square root
check box. If you are interested in more detail at the upper end, choose the
Square check box.

3.2.7 Browser

This preferences panel allows you to configure your HTTP proxy. Contact your
system administrator for details.

3.2.8 Tools

This preference panel allows you to configure the currently active plugins.

[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 
 
