▼  Graphics: Legacy Library
 1  Basic Commands
 2  Position Operations
 3  Color Operations
 4  Draw, Clear, and Flip Operations
 5  World Operations
 6  Miscellaneous Operations
 7  An Example
 8  A More Complicated Example
 9  Protecting Graphics Operations
10  Mouse Operations
11  Keyboard Operations
12  Flushing
13  Graphics Library as a Unit
On this page:
get-mouse-click
ready-mouse-click
ready-mouse-release
query-mouse-posn
mouse-click-posn
left-mouse-click?
middle-mouse-click?
right-mouse-click?
[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 

10 Mouse Operations

The graphics library contains functions that determine where the mouse is, if
there are any clicks, etc. The functions get-mouse-click and ready-mouse-click
first return a “mouse-click descriptor,” and then other functions take the
descriptor and return the mouse’s position, which button was pushed, etc. Mouse
clicks are buffered and returned in the same order in which they occurred.
Thus, the descriptors returned by get-mouse-click and ready-mouse-click may be
from clicks that occurred long before these functions were called.

(get-mouse-click viewport) → mouse-click?
  viewport : viewport?
Returns the next mouse click in viewport, waiting for a click if necessary.

(ready-mouse-click viewport) → (or/c mouse-click? false/c)
  viewport : viewport?
Returns either a mouse click descriptor or #f if none is available. Unlike
get-mouse-click, ready-mouse-click always returns immediately.

(ready-mouse-release viewport) → (or/c mouse-click? false/c)
  viewport : viewport?
Returns either a click descriptor from a mouse-release (button-up) event or #f
if none is available.

(query-mouse-posn viewport) → (or/c posn? false/c)
  viewport : viewport?
Returns either the position of the mouse cursor within viewport or else #f if
the cursor is currently outside viewport.

(mouse-click-posn mouse-click) → posn?
  mouse-click : mouse-click?
Returns the position of the pixel within a viewport where a given mouse click
occurred.

(left-mouse-click? mouse-click) → boolean?
  mouse-click : mouse-click?
Returns #t if the mouse click occurred with the left mouse button, #f
otherwise.

(middle-mouse-click? mouse-click) → boolean?
  mouse-click : mouse-click?
Returns #t if the mouse click occurred with the middle mouse button, #f
otherwise.

(right-mouse-click? mouse-click) → boolean?
  mouse-click : mouse-click?
Returns #t if the mouse click occurred with the right mouse button, #f
otherwise.

[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 
 
