▼  Errortrace: Debugging and Profiling
1  Quick Instructions
2  Installing Errortrace
3  Using Errortrace
4  Errortrace Library
5  Re-using Errortrace Stack Tracing
6  Errortrace Key
On this page:
errortrace-compile-handler
make-errortrace-compile-handler
errortrace-error-display-handler
errortrace-annotate
annotate-top
[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 

4 Errortrace Library

 (require errortrace/errortrace-lib)
The errortrace/errortrace-lib module exports all of the exports of errortrace,
plus a few more. It does not install any handlers.

The additional exports are as follows:

(errortrace-compile-handler   stx               
                              immediate-eval?)  
 → compiled-expression?
  stx : any/c
  immediate-eval? : any/c
Compiles stx using the compilation handler that was active when the errortrace/
errortrace-lib module was executed, but first instruments the code for
Errortrace information. The code is instrumented only if


    (namespace-module-registry (current-namespace))

is the same as when the errortrace/errortrace-lib module was executed. This
procedure is suitable for use as a compilation handler via current-compile.

(make-errortrace-compile-handler)
 → (-> any/c any/c compiled-expression)
Produces a compile handler that is like errortrace-compile-handler, except that
the code that it produces is instrumented if the value of


    (namespace-module-registry (current-namespace))

is the same as when the original thunk is invoked.

In addition, when the thunk is invoked, it uses namespace-attach-module to
attach the errortrace/errortrace-key module and the '#%kernel module to the
current-namespace.

(errortrace-error-display-handler   string        
                                    exn)     →   void?
  string : string?
  exn : exn?
Displays information about the exception; this procedure is suitable for use as
an error display handler.

(errortrace-annotate stx) → any/c
  stx : any/c
Macro-expands and instruments the given top-level form. If the form is a module
named errortrace-key, no instrumentation is applied. This annotation function
is used by errortrace-compile-handler.

(annotate-top stx phase-level) → any/c
  stx : any/c
  phase-level : exact-integer?
Like errortrace-annotate, but given an explicit phase level for stx; (
namespace-base-phase) is typically the right value for the phase-level
argument.

Unlike errortrace-annotate, there no special case for a module named
errortrace-key. Also, if stx is a module declaration, it is not enriched with
imports to explicitly load Errortrace run-time support.

[...search manuals...]
  top← prev  up  next → 
 
